my name is Eric these days on with the
AWS security team but when i joined
amazon eight years ago i was with the
team that defined and launched VPC and
that's what we're going to be talking
about today that clicker works so this
is a reprise of a version of this talk
that I gave it reinvent two years ago
I'd like to manage expectations a lot of
the content is the same there is some
new stuff but if you're expecting a
completely new talk I'd rather you leave
angry now than leave angry at the end of
the talk the problem that we're trying
to solve with a VPC is simple where AWS
we have the cloud the cloud is full of
all sorts of AWS see goodness services
like ec2 and elastic load balancing and
the elastic block store and our
relational database service and Amazon
redshift or columnar data store and
ElastiCache customers have data centers
these are data centers they've owned for
years they're expensive capital
investments they're not going to go away
immediately and so as good engineers we
go to the whiteboard and we draw an
arrow this is what we wanted to do we
wanted to plug customer data centers
into the cloud this is going to be a
really important to deployment scenario
for us we have customers your stories
about Netflix and customers like that
that are all in on the cloud they're
closing their last data center but for
every Netflix that we have for every
customer that's ending that journey
we've got another customer beginning
that journey so as a service provider we
are always going to have customers that
are running hybrid operations between
their existing infrastructure and their
new infrastructure in the cloud and it's
it's unrealistic and unwise to expect
people to do Big Bang migrations it's
going to be applications moving
gradually data moving gradually so in
order to win this business in order to
do cloud right we're going to have to
support this for the long term so at the
first reinvent we had a talk entitled
drinking your own champagne by Laura grid
it's available on YouTube I highly recommend it
it's about Amazon's own
story moving to AWS where we are an
enterprise just like many of you we had
data centers they were built to serve
our needs they were built without
considering a future move to the cloud
and we had some challenges
there VPC was critical to that adoption
it was one of the major building blocks
that we used and this is a story we've
seen unfold with a lot of other
customers so in the beginning we had ec2
and when you launched an instance we
would assign an IP address to that
instance it was effectively a 32-bit
random number it was it was unique in
the cloud you could you'd get a DNS name
you could route traffic to it and when
you launched another instance you'd get
another IP address and it was another 32
bit random number and meanwhile there
were other tenants the cloud is multi
tended their other customers launching
instances in the cloud and we would
assign them 32-bit random numbers as
well and this would go on and everything
was great now we come to a customer data
center and let's say that someday 20
years ago 10 years ago whenever this
data center was built some network
engineer chose 192.168.0.0/16 as the IP
range for the data center perfectly
reasonable choice there's a router there
this is a router router like
piece of sheet metal comes from one of the major
router vendors it's got some embedded
firmware on it some TCAM and it's got a
routing table in it and it says 192.168
that's here so if we're going to plug
that into the cloud we're going to plug
that into the ec2 network that we had
well you're going to launch an instance
and we're going to need to route to that
instance we're gonna have to add it to
your routing table but we have to add a
/32 right we have to add a host route
because the next instance that launches
in the right next door the next IP
address could be a different customer
you don't want that instance routing
back to your data center so as you
launch instances we have to add them to
the routing table and as you terminate
instances we have to make sure that you
remove them from the routing table so
your routing table is going to
1, contain a set of routes the size of your instance fleet
not good and 2, your
routing table is going to absorb updates
at the rate of instance launch and terminate
also not good but that's not
all let's say that a decade ago your
network engineer chose 10.44.0.0/16
an equally reasonable choice it's
RFC1918 it's not going to be right on the
internet there's absolutely nothing that
we can put in that routing table that'll
that make sense we've got 10.44 in
the cloud we've got 10.44 in the
data center you can do things like
double NAT if you ever say double NAT
to a network engineer make sure that
you're standing far away from them like
this horrible network design so we've
got a problem here so from a customer
facing perspective we have customer
selected IP addresses customers want to
bring their own IPs you have a network
it has some design decisions that were
made years ago they're not good or bad
design decisions it's what you have it
needs to work with our stuff we need
router aggregation your router that you
can try this if you want but I guarantee
you your router will be sad if you add
and remove route updates if you add and
remove routing table entries every time
you launch a terminator an instance so
we need some way of aggregating this so
that routing table updates are
infrequent they happen when their
network configuration events or network
connectivity changes and we need
conformance with existing network
designs this was a fun conversation that
we had internally we like we want to
build a beautiful new abstract cloud
network and I was arguing that no
actually customers have a preconceived
notion of how networks go together and
you need to conform with that you need
to you need to meet them where they are
you need to allow them to photocopy
their existing network designs through
our APIs and then we had an early
customer who happens to be sponsoring
this conference and they came to us when
they said all networks have to be /24
hour provisioning tools can't deal
with anything else and that sold the
case for me Amazon's own data centers
which are amazing like we were very very
good at automated data centers automated
provisioning scale and all of that the
tools there were built by us to work in
our data centers for our provisioning
use cases and all of our subnets were
rack sized they're all /24 and we
assume that all networks forever would
be /24 which was the right decision
to make when we built those provisioning
tools we never thought about the cloud
and so my own company helped me sell the
idea to my company it was a nice turn of
events so the high-level presentation is
you have a data center
it has some arbitrary Network range that
you've chosen you create a VPC this is
an API call into our control plane and
when you create the VPC you specify the
CIDR block you want for the VPC so
this customers chosen 172.31.0.0/18
it's an arbitrary choice it's up to you
it should be something that doesn't
overlap with anything else you want to
plug into it then you create a VPN
gateway this is our end of a private
connection you create a customer gateway
and we don't yet have APIs that cause
routers to pop into existence this is
more telling us about the device on your
side so you give us the IP address and
things like that and we know now what
the far end of the the VPN connection is
and then you configure a VPN connection
it's done programmatically on our side
would give you the router configuration
you need to install on your side and now
network connectivity can come up and
your router is going to learn route for
that VPC one route that covers the
entire VPC within the VPC you can
allocate subnets the subnets have to be
within the CIDR for the VPC itself
you can create as many of these as you'd
like and now as you launch instances and
terminate them there are no changes to
your routing table on-prem so we've
solved the overlapping IP address
problem and we've solved the high
velocity routing table update problem
why why am I telling you about this this
is a solved problem we've been doing
this for decades like a subnet you're
using these fancy cloud terms but it's
just a VLAN I know what this is not as
many people know about vrf virtual
routing and forwarding you basically
it's the same thing as VLANs but for
layer 3 you fragment your routing table
into multiple virtual routing tables so
you take the smart complicated physical
network that you've used for years and
you ask it to make virtual copies of
itself this is a mature business that's
used in data centers all over the world
but our application is not the same as
those applications the VLAN header
perfectly reasonable thing no one
thought that 4096 was going to be a
constraint we publicly talked about how
AWS has more than a million customers a
million is larger than 4096
even more concerning like the the
4096 that's easy to test like it's a
12-bit field in the header you can
iterate through all of them VRFs are
complicated and most vendors haven't
actually tested beyond 512 we know we
tried but even if you do go beyond that
it large like blast furnace full rack
routers the things that cost more than
your house support one to two thousand
VRFs one to two thousand is still less
than a million if you're buying a device
that's claims to support more than
2K VRFs and you are intending to use more
than 2K VRFs you are a beta tester is
not what we want to be building our
production services on and there's a
fixed ratio of vlans to VRFs you get
4096 VLANs on a port you get a thousand
VRFs in the box what if your customers
want more than 4 subnets/VPC what
if they want less you're going to be
stranding some resources but that's not
all we're talking about these giant
blast furnace routers and these things
are fast they are amazingly capable but
we're talking about the data plane here
these are custom switch a6 the fabric
cards this is the fast part of the
router inside the router is a control
plane many of them are actually x86
boxes running freebsd or linux these
days except they have less ram and less
horsepower than this laptop and they
cost as much as a car and it's connected
to the data plane via a straw you've got
a data plane that's got 100 10-Gig parts
and the control plane is going to
dramatically less connectivity there
it's the control plane that's dealing
with all of this configuration
complexity and the way you scale these
things is you do one plus one failover
but it's failover between the control
planes so we loaded this up we actually
did this we had a pair of routers and
these were amazing routers like you
could push terabits of capacity through
them but when you failed one of the
routers over the control planes would go
dark there was actually one router brand
where there's a
watchdog timer the control plane went
dark so long trying to reconvert all of
the routing protocols that this one
rebooted so then this one came up and
tried to reconvert all of the writing
protocols and rebooted and we just had
routers see-sawing back and forth so
these routers are configured using text
files if we figure an average router
config line is 50 characters it takes us
10 lines of router config to describe a
VPC of vrf figure an average of four
subnets / VPC takes us five lines of
router config to describe a subnet and
we've got 2,000 customers on the box
it's a three megabyte text file
committing one of these configs on one
of these routers literally it could take
it three to five minutes just to parse
the configuration not to apply anything
just to parse the configuration and
validate it texturally these routers are
just computers with strange hardware
they have the same bugs that every other
system has that the software is written
by humans humans write all the bugs and
so there are assumptions in these
routers and they work really well for
their design point but they work really
poorly if you use them outside that
design point sometimes for example we
had a device that we were using and it
was a similar use case we had a lot of a
certain kind of config where the typical
you'd have like a dozen of these and we
would have thousands or tens of
thousands of them it turns out the
internal implementation of that was a
singly linked list so if you wanted to
add one to that list you have to chase
pointers all the way down to the end of
the list if you wanted to delete one
from the middle you had to chase
pointers until you found it and stitch
it out when you have eight of them or 12
of them no one notices this computers
are fast when you have 10,000 of them
all of a sudden the control plane starts
to fall over there's another problem we
found with a device every time you
committed the config it would leak two
words of memory well how often you
commit config on a router like a dozen
times and you're building the thing out
maybe every couple of months when
there's a network design change you add
new capacity we commit config two
routers every time customers make API
calls you want a VPC you want a new
subnet we're going to be committing
config so we exhausted memory on
control plane due to this memory leak it
had been present in the code for like
ten years and no one had found it until
we did this it's because we were
operating outside of the common envelope
we'd become beta testers again so this
doesn't scale it's going to be expensive
the closest I have come to career
suicide was when I proposed this design
in front of a bunch of network engineers
at amazon i swear to god one of them was
in the back of the room sharpening a big
knife like this is this is not the way
to make your network engineers like you
we're tied to vendor bug fix cycles if
you've got something that goes wrong in
your data center it affects you and we
have something that goes wrong in our
data center it affects all of our
customers and it's likely to affect
multiple devices in our data center
because we keep cookie cutter in out the
same design we like to control our own
destiny we like to be able to fix things
on our time scale you know that memory
leak bug that had been present for a
decade it's not a high priority bug for
literally any other customer of that
vendor but it's super high priority for
us and that impedance mismatch causes
problems and so we want to be on the
commodity curve we want these things to
be getting cheaper as quickly as our
compute and storage are getting cheaper
and a lot of the selling points for
these large vertically integrated
devices is all sorts of advanced
features but the interoperability of
those advanced features is pretty poor
and we don't care about them we want the
network to be fast and done we want it
to pass the bits we don't want the fancy
features we don't want to pay for the
fancy features and I keep saying we
horizontally scale we stamp out multiple
of these things but this isn't
horizontal scaling it looks like
horizontal scaling because there's two
similar things sitting next to each
other but it's really silos of capacity
so we've got routers and because I got
tired of making boxes in PowerPoint each
router can support for customers and 40
instances worth of capacity and so
customer a shows up and asks for three
instances we arbitrarily choose to place
them on the left silo customer b shows
up arbitrarily place them on the right
silo customer c like there's some sort
of load balancing placement algorithm
going
on here and as launches come and go we
add them now custom ray just launched
two more instances because they're VPC
is hosted in the left silo I have to
place them in the left silo that
placement decision is made for me
customer I shows up it's one instance
looks puny this is an incredibly
important customer for us this is the
getting started guide every single one
of our customers was once a one instance
customer this customer may get off the
platform tomorrow and we may never hear
from them again they may be the next
netflix i don't know f shows up this is
a large enterprise customer this is a
planned migration maybe we knew how much
capacity they were going to need and we
could make a an intentional manual
decision here customer g I just
allocated the last customer on that left
silo it's full I've got a bunch of
capacity available but I can only sell
it to those for customers obviously in
the real world it'd be a lot more than 4
you'd get better statistical averaging
but still I'm stranding some capacity
here and I can hide that by increasing
prices if I get ninety percent
utilization out of the fleet compared to
what I used to get eleven percent higher
prices and we're back where we started
and we just announced our 50th price
decrease pitching products at amazon
that cause things to get more expensive
is not a good path to success so this is
bad but this isn't the worst customer be
is some sort of social media application
whatever the kids are using these days
I've stranded some router capacity there
but it's nowhere near as bad as the fact
that I've exhausted my instance capacity
I can't hide this from the customer
customer be wants one more instance or
even poor dnf who have no idea that
they're co-located with be I have to
expose that to them they have to go
create another subnet or they have to
create a new VPC that's an
unacceptable customer experience so to
do this internally and this is actually
a line from our original design doc we
want to support millions of environments
the size of amazon.com we must not
further constrain the placement problem
any instance anywhere can be in any
subnet in any VPC
so to do this we've got servers someone
has to be the bottom turtle we're the
ones that on the sheet metal so we've
got a physical network with physical
servers on those servers we place
instances those instances are grouped
together into VPCs virtual private
clouds and our API is VPCs have
identify as vpc- 8-characters i also
got tired of typing goes in so i used
colors here so we've got 3 VPC is
running around in this network and then
the mapping service this is a piece of
VPC that's not exposed directly to
customers the mapping service is the
linchpin around everything around which
everything revolves so these are the
basic building blocks this is layer two
Ethernet this is how Ethernet has been
working for decades it comes off the
operating system DVD or I guess whatever
it is we used to distribute out OSS
these days 10.0.0.2 wants to talk to 10.0.0.3
he's going to ARP last time I gave
this talk i said i'm using this this mac
of IP address notation because typing
and mac addresses is arduous and it's
hard to remember which max go with which
IP addresses and i said please
substitute your favorite 48-bit number
one of my co-workers kindly pointed out
that not all 48 bit numbers or valid mac
addresses so please substitute a valid
48-bit MAC address hi Andrew
the ethernet switch doesn't know where
1000 3 is let's pretend everything is
freshly booted so you thur nets which is
going to flood that r / quest out every
port including the part that happens to
have 10.0.0.3 connected to it 10.0.0.3 is
going to respond and say hey that's me
we're going to learn the mac at the
switch and the ethernet switch will
forward the response so now 10.0.0.2 is
managed to learn the mac of 10.0.0.3 the
switch happens to have programmed its
CAM and so now we can send some sort of
IP packet the l2 and l3 source match the
l2 and l3 destinations match the
ethernet switch forwards it across the
network this is happening I don't know
how many trillions of times a second all
around the world that's what we have to
make work so 1000 to wants to talk to
1000 3 he's going to send that exact
same ARP request we're going to trap
that ARP request we're going to send a
query to the mapping service I'm going
to say hey we're looking for blue 10.0.0.3
mapping service is going to tell us
where 10.0.0.3 is we learn the mac but we
also learn the physical server on which
blue 10.0.0.3 lives and we form an ARP
response and propagate it back to the
guest one interesting wrinkle here that
ARP request never made it to 10.0.0.3 you
can do this today in VPC spin up an
instance run tcpdump you'll never see
our requests it turns out you don't
actually need to see the ARP requests it
totally doesn't matter so now we can
send that packet it's the exact same
packet we're going to send across the
physical network we're going to trap
that packet we're going to wrap it with
a VPC header it's tagged to the
blue VPC we're going to wrap it with this
physical network a substrate network IP
header and we're going to send it
directly to the server that's hosting
blue 10.0.0.3 on receipt we're going to
ask the mapping service hey I just got
this packet from someone claiming to be
blue 10.0.0.2 what's up the mapping
services because they that's cool and it
didn't draw it here in the slide but
this is how we fill in the mac address
for the source at receive time
and then we can deliver this packet to the guest
so this is
that this is the ethernet stack this is
layer 2 packet forwarding within a
subnet working straight off the LS DVD
we didn't have to change anything in the
instances Windows Linux whatever it just
works in order for these two instances
to communicate the only requirements are
they have to have direct IP connectivity
to each other and they have to be able
to talk to the mapping service we know
how to build networks that span data
centers that span the globe so we've
succeeded here we have not constrained
the placement problem any 2 physical
servers can host a pair of instances in
any subnet regardless of their placement
on the IP network so the virtual l2
topology is completely decoupled from
the physical topology step napping check
on receipt let's dig into that for a
moment so let's say that for whatever
reason grey 10.0.0.4 wants to talk to
10.0.0.3 we're going to send a query to
the mapping service but it's going to be
tagged to grey you have full access to
the IP headers in the packets you
generate you can fill in any 32-bit
destination address you want we will
always interpret that in the context of
your VPC and so you can scan you can
literally scan a /0 from within
your VPC and unless you have routes to
them you can't talk two instances in
other VPCs via some means we've got a
corrupt mapping something something has
gone wrong here we're going to send this
query and it's tagged to blue so we
claim to be from the blue VPC the
mapping service knows that there aren't
any blue instances on that physical
server this is an errant packet it
should not flow so we're going to deny
that mapping we're not going to tell the
source where that destination is and
we're going to call a human if via some
means we managed to obtain the mapping
and we send the packet across the
physical network on receipt we're going
to do that reverse mapping check we're
going to say could you please verify for
me that the instance claiming to be blue
10.0.0.4 is really at that physical
source no it's not de spent this mapping
is invalid this packet is invalid
so we're going to drop that packet we're
going to call for a human what this
means is that packets can't flow across
the network unless all parties involved
the source the destination and the
mapping service agree that the package
should flow our control plant has 100%
visibility into where every l2 and l3
address is placed in the network and we
can very strictly control which packets
flow so next up is l3 again this is
straight off the OS DVD it's the way
it's worked for years in this case we
have if we assume /24 net masks we're
talking across a subnet boundary so
10.0.0.2 wants to talk to 10.0.1.3
this is in a different subnet we have
to go through our gateway so we're going to
ARP for a gateway it's the exact same
dance packet floods we learn the mac and we learn the
destination MAC address and so now we
can send a packet and in this case the
l2 and l3 sources lineup but the l2 and
l3 destinations don't the l2 destination
is the gateway the l3 destination is the
eventual host we send it to the router
the router swaps up the MAC addresses
now the source is the routers interface
on the right subnet and the l3
destination is still the eventual box
and we deliver it this is l3 IP
forwarding as routers have been doing it
since time began so we've got the same
situation in VPC we're going to ARP for
our gateway the mapping service is going
to tell us it's a special host it's a
gateway so we get a mac address for it
we don't have a physical destination for
it we can send the ARP response back to
the guests thus completing the protocol
and so now the guest is going to try and
send a packet this is the exact same
packet that would have put on the wire
in the previous slide we stopped that
packet we queue it up and we make a
secondary query to the mapping service
and this time we don't query on the l2
destination with query on the l3
destination so we learned that blue
10.0.1.3 is located in that box in the lower
right 192.168.1.4 so now we can send
this packet across the physical Network
wrapped in the VPC header wrap it in a
physical header and deliver it
the exact same reverse mapping check
gets performed we swap out the MAC
addresses deliver to the guest this
again achieves our goal we've placed no
further constraints on l3 packet
forwarding compared to L2 packet
forwarding any two boxes that have IP
connectivity with each other and with
the mapping service can host any two
instances in any VPC across subnet
boundaries so this is the system
we went with the system is not without
scaling limits but it's with scaling
limits that match our use case it's
designed to match our very specific very
narrow use case and we own it we can fix
it we can alter it as time goes on so I
queued this packet the customer sent it
I snagged it I queried the mapping
service so this means that the mapping
service is now critical to packet flows
but if the mapping service isn't
available the packets won't flow in an
addition even if the mapping service is
working correctly there's no two paths
through the system there's a fast path
where we've already got the mappings and
there's a slow pathway if the cue
packets in query the mapping service and
so in reality there's a mapping service
replica a little cache on every single
one of our physical boxes and they
subscribe to the mapping service it's
logically exactly the same we have
strict ACLs on all of the records in
the mapping service the cache can't
populate records that it shouldn't have
access to we get the same kinds of
alarms raised when instances try and
fetch the wrong records but it means
that we have a 100% cache ratio
we actually did not implement the cache
miss path the only way to translate
packets is through this cache so that
gets us dead flat latency and it
mitigates a bunch of availability
concerns so new content warning I've
told you how we can talk within a subnet
well to forwarding and how we can talk
across subnet boundaries l3 forwarding
but I haven't answered the problem that
motivated the entire talk how do you get
back to your home office or your
your existing data centers we know how
to send the packet like there's a source
IP a destination IP life is good we can
wrap it with a VPC header but then what
do we put in for the destination or if I
do put in your your VPN router as the
destination it's going to get this
proprietary Amazon wrapped packet and be
all confused drop it on the floor and
your packets aren't going to flow and so
we've got a new kind of thing in the VPC
world we call them edges or very
creative people so if we look at the
mappings that are cached on this
physical server there's actually two
kinds of mappings there there's flash
32s effectively there's host mappings
this is for talking to other instances
but then there's also browse their CIDR
mappings and so we have a route here
that says 172.16.0.0/16 which is the
home office or the data center routes to
this edge and so we know how to do this
you send the packet we wrap it up we
send it on to the edge the edge will
perform exactly the same reverse mapping
checks it's just another participant in
the VPC network and so what this thing
does if for example we're talking down
to VPN connection we send the packet to
the edge the packet is familiar with our
virtual networking protocols it can
unwrap this packet figure out where it's
going and it can rewrap this packet and
in the case of VPN it's all IPSec so
we've got a system that takes VPC
encapsulated packets determines whether
or not they should flow maps them onto
customer IPSec tunnels and sends them
out over the open Internet if you're
using direct connect rather than using
IPSec tunnels over the internet you can
get a hardline connection a fiber
gigabit 10 gigabit connection to AWS if
you're using direct connect we do almost
exactly the same thing except it rather
than doing IPSec we put a 802.1Q VLAN
tag for handoff to our direct connect
router I complained about VLAN tags
earlier so I owe you guys an explanation
4096 isn't a lot but this VLAN is
literally long it moves from one router in a cage
to another router in the same cage and
so we're limited to four thousand
customers per port and that's not a
limitation for us we reuse VLAN tags per
port so there's also the internet people
like talking to the internet there's a
lot of stuff out there send the packet
to the edge this is getting boring but
then what do we do with it how do we
encapsulate it for sending to the
Internet the reality is we don't want to
encapsulate it to send it to the
internet we just want IP packets that's
what the internet runs on and so there
you go if I send this packet out to the
internet with this source IP it'll
actually arrive the destination will get
it and it will attempt to send return
traffic 10.0.0.2 is an RFC1918 IP
address it's not routable on the
internet so the host actually doesn't
know that it'll if it's a TCP connection
the syn packet will go out the syn ack
packet will be generated by the server
he'll drop it into his network it'll
fall on the floor this is an
unsuccessful network connection so we do
one-to-one NAT this is where elastic IP
addresses enter the story so when you
map an EIP an elastic IP address a
public internet routable IP address to
your instance this edge is the box
that's performing that one to one
translation some the way out we replace
the source IP with your EIP on the way
back it's going to be sent to your EIP
we swap out the destination IP address
for the private IP of your instance so
we've got a box now it does packet
mangling for us packet translations and
an interesting story there's a
good-sized chunk of the ec2 team in Cape
Town South Africa which is almost as far
as you can get from Seattle it's called
Antipodes if you put a globe on a drill
press and you start in Seattle the drill
will come out in the Indian Ocean off
the coast of South Africa if you go
there you will encounter the African
penguin the African penguin has also
known as the jackass penguin
they really do sound like donkeys but
it's also known as the Blackfoot penguin
and tux is the Linux mascot so when we
built a linux-based network appliance
for ec2 we named it the Blackfoot so if
you hear any amazon people talking about
black feet that's those edge devices and
it also happens to be the name of one of
our office buildings in Seattle so most
of AWS works in the Blackfoot building
so pricing VPC costs nothing subnets
costs nothing and we instances in a VPC
don't cost any more and so I mentioned
that earlier we had our 50th price
decrease at AWS VPC will never
participate in AWS as tradition of
decreasing prices but this is exactly
where we want it to be we can now offer
customers a flexible programmable
virtual network at no charge in addition
to being the day after my birthday this
is the day that the last US retail web
server last US retail physical web
server was turned off i sold this live
from LA regrets drinking your own
champagne talk so if you bought anything
if you've surfed the amazon website
since november 10 2010 and i hope you
all have the page you viewed was
rendered by an ec2 instance one hundred
percent of us retail pages have been
rendered in DC to since this date so
this is not a research project for us
this is a robust production network we
run our business on it and we carried q4
in november this year it's going to be
the 6th q4 for amazon retail that we
carry in VPC VPC has grown a lot it's
become a platform so you were always
able to get instances in your VPC but a
lot of our services like RDS databases
and redshift clusters can be launched
inside your VPC and so now clients in
your home office can
access these things over the private
network these things can access your
existing data centers over Direct Connect
connections to load data and to interact
with existing applications there have
been a ton of features that we've
launched with you see two we didn't have
a network to describe but there was no
network you had an IP address and now
that we have a network we've added
network features so we started off with
VPN and direct connect private
connectivity to the cloud security
groups we've always had security groups
in ec2 but in VPC we added egress
filtering so if you want to filter
packets outbound from your instances you
can do it in VPC network ACLs we have
a lot of customers that are used to
grouping instances together in EC2 IP
addresses were random numbers 2 IP
addresses that were close together
didn't mean that they were doing the
same job they weren't both web servers
they may not even be owned by the same
customer in VPC you can lay out your
subnets however you want if you have IT
policies that say that these kind of
servers must be separated from those
kind of service you can do with a couple
of API calls and then you can use
network ACLs as you do today in your
data center to separate those servers
routing tables this allows you to
implement virtual appliances with
elastic network interfaces we like our
elasticity at AWS you can basically plug
multiple nics into an ec2 instance and
so once you have to nix in a box you can
set it up as a virtual appliance you can
plug it into two subnets and now you've
got a firewall or a load balancer or
whatever it is that you want to program
that box to do multiple IP addresses /
NIC we had customers that want to serve
multiple sites off of their instances
and they didn't have SNI support so they
needed to serve different sorts based on
who is contacting them things like this
are really useful to customers and a fun
one that we launched recently I'm really
a fan of this feature is s3 endpoints
prior to launching this feature if your
instances wanted to talk to s3 they had
to do so over the Internet you to create
an Internet gateway in your v pc and you
sent the traffic out this meant that
either this instance or an at instance
something had a public IP address and
this traffic was traversing the Amazon
border network
so we introduced the ability to create
an s3 endpoint you declare this VR api's
you say I want an s3 endpoint and I want
to attach it to this VPC and it's a
routable target and so your instance
talks to your s3 gateway your s3
endpoint and the s3 endpoint takes care
of getting that traffic to s3 via
Amazon's private network and the way we
implemented this this should look very
familiar we edit a new kind of route so
rather than routing a cider block you
can now route what we call the name to
prefix so there's a set of IP addresses
that represent s3 in this case in u.s.
East one and you can say s3 and Us East
one doesn't go towards the Internet it
goes towards there and so exactly the
same thing it's a little bit more
constrained I assume you're not going to
be sending UDP or ICMP traffic to s3 you
can if you want we're not going to do
anything useful with it we can wrap that
packet send it to an edge and pass it on
and what we've done here is we've
created a new encapsulation that's
specific to VPC endpoints and we don't
nat when this packet arrives at s3 it
has the original source IP address the
private IP address of that instance when
it gets dest 3 and it also has that
green header there it's tagged with a
VPC endpoint ID the reason we created a
new encapsulation was to decouple state
we didn't want us three to have to
understand all of the placement of
instances this isn't tell you where the
physical server is located in the VPC
network it just tells you it came from
this VPC endpoint laws are our two teams
to iterate separately we weren't coupled
so because you get the original source
IP address and you get the VPC endpoint
ID you can do some interesting things
you can apply an aspen policy a standard
AWS access control policy to that end
point and you can say only this bucket
is accessible via this endpoint
instances that are routing through that
endpoint will not be able to get to any
other buckets likewise you can apply a
policy to your
three bucket you've been able to do this
for years but now you can speak to the
VPC endpoint or the VPC ID in the policy
and so I've said that my bucket is only
accessible from this one VPC i could
give you my AWS keys i could crack open
everything else about that bucket but
you still wouldn't be able to get to it
unless you are inside my VPC and so now
you can use the exact same policies that
use elsewhere in AWS to enforce you to
enforce your desired security stance
end-to-end so there's there's a spectrum
here on the one hand you've got simple
on the other hand you've got complex
simple things tend to be limited there
are fewer knobs to turn fewer dials to
play with things that are complex tend
to be more flexible there's more of a
learning curve auc to network was simple
you're going to IP address you've got a
public IP address you were done the VPC
network is complicated but there's a lot
more you can do with it and this isn't a
value judgement I own both a multimeter
an oscilloscope they're both good tools
but I use them for different things and
so a feature that we added a couple of
years ago is default VPC the problem we
had is we want everyone to be in a VPC
if you launch an ec2 instance perfectly
reasonable thing to do we like it when
people on GC two instances and you
decide three years later that now you're
scaled application needs private
connectivity somewhere you want egress
filtering on your security groups or you
want an s3 end point you have to move
into a VPC this is hard to do so we
wanted everyone to have a VPC but we
didn't want everyone to have to deal
with all of the complexity of epc on
their first day as a customer and so it
needed to be code compatible with you
see too we've got a getting started
guide we can fix our getting started
guide we've got an SDK we can fix our
SDK there's an infinite number of blog
posts out there that talk about how you
do something in AWS and we couldn't
invalidate that whole body of knowledge
it had to continue working so we had to
be code compatible with ec2 and so it is
you can launch and terminate instances
you can run those shell scripts you find
on web pages all over the place and it
works but if one date is you decide you
need the functionality of VPC you can
break the glass you can peek at the man
behind the curtain and it turns out that
when you launch that first instance we
created a VPC we laid out subnets and
then we hid everything from you and so
the getting started guide is still
pickin ami run an instance but if you
later want connectivity to your home
office or it's your data center you can
go through all of that and so we've
managed to span a fairly large swath of
this spectrum we've got one service that
allows customers to get started easily
and quickly just like ec2 did but allows
them to evolve incrementally as they
need the additional flexibility
additional functionality of epc to
adjust some very complicated use cases
so thank you for your time and I've been
told that my return ticket home is in
danger if you do not fill out your
evaluation so please fill out your
evaluations we value your feedback